---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

# Looking for a Project

Section 4 of [this article](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#finding-a-project-to-contribute-to) has some great advice about contributing to OSS that I've heard before. Specifically, I've heard that the best way to get started is to contribute to a project that you use regularly. Although I usually hear it with regard to a quote from Eric S. Raymond's _The Cathedral  & The Bazaar_:

> Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch

Besides this common piece of advice, I thought the checklist provided in the article was quite helpful. Of the items in this list, only a couple occurred to me as things I should check: the timestamp on the latest commit and the number of open issues. Many of the other items emphasized looking for active projects with active communities (especially active maintainers). One more part of the checklist that hadn't occurred to me, but that I think is very important is that the community is welcoming.

# Comments on Git Content

Overall, I am quite comfortable with Git and GitHub. Sometimes I get confused about which branch I am on or forget to switch branches before starting work, but I know enough Git to get back on track.

# Course Related Activities

I started looking for projects to contribute to. One project that I've been looking at in particular is [hub](https://github.com/github/hub), a Git wrapper for GitHub that I use all of the time and is written in a language that I want more practice writing (Go). It is a pretty active project and the community seems welcoming, but I haven't found an issue that I can tackle yet, so I might have to spend some more time scoping out the codebase and learning about the GitHub API.
