---
title: Week 14
layout: post
---

# Reflections on This Class

In my first blog post for this class I wrote:

> I’ve wanted to contribute to OSS for a while now, but never found the time in my schedule to figure out where to start or how to contribute consistently... I expect to learn about where to start and where to go from there, which saves me the effort of researching this myself and puts me in a position to continue contributing after the end of the semester.

This expectation has definitely been fulfilled throughout the course. I've learned how to find projects to work on and what to look for while evaluating a potential project that I want to work on. I definitely would not have spent much time vetting a project before diving into it if I had tried contributing to open source software without the guidance of this class. I also ended up submitting a [pull request](https://github.com/github/hub/pull/2363) for a feature on a project that I actually use, so I am happy with the progress I have made in open source software.

However, this course was a bit different from my overall expectations. I expected this class to be focused solely on open source software, but it also included a bit about projects whose data is open source. Specifically, OpenStreetMap and Wikipedia. I think mentioning these projects was definitely beneficial to the class, but I personally would have preferred focusing on contributing to open source software rather than going into contributions on these projects. 
