---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

## Git Group Activity and Blog Editing

### Git Group Activity

This week, we did a group activity on Git to familiarize ourselves with a git workflow and simulate what it would be like to work on an open source project in which you cannot easily communicate with other contributers. Personally, I didn't find this activity to be very useful because I've used git in this sort of a situation before. I've used it for group projects, hackathon projects, and for work. I knew how to edit, commit, and push files to GitHub already, but I was reminded of one frustrating part of working on a team: waiting for changes that are necessary for the rest of my work. Team member 1 on my team did not push a README.md file until the last few minutes of class. After it was pushed, I was able to finish the activity in time. Also, I somehow didn't run into any merge conflicts. I've ran into them in the past and dread running into them in the future, but I got lucky during this activity and didn't have to deal with any.

### Readings

Overall, I enjoyed the readings for this week, but I thought "[7 Things That Make a Great Open Source Contribution](https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/open-source-contribution/)" had some great tips not just for OSS contributions, but to software development in general. Tip #1, sticking to a single idea and clearly communicating it, is one that I have struggled with in the past. Often when I am editing code to add a new feature or fix a bug, I see something along the way that I could fix and bundle together with the rest of my edits, but is outside of the scope of my edits. This is definitely something I want to work on throughout the semester.

Besides Tip #1, tip #2 emphasizes the same point as the Git group activity: there is little to no direct communication between contributers, so all changes should be well documented and summarized so there is no ambiguity regarding the change. Also, Tip #4 mentioned an idea that I didn't consider previously. It says that every change should be considerate of all users rather than one contributer. I think most changes would benefit the overall userbase anyway, so I will definitely look out for the distinction between benefiting one user and all users when looking at projects throughout this course.

### Blog Edit

I made an edit to [@darrenzhang2000](https://github.com/darrenzhang2000)'s [blog](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/darrenzhang2000-weekly) by adding hyperlinks to his latest bog post. Previously, his blog had a few links as plain text and he did not have links to the readings. I added hyperlinks to the readings in their titles and converted phrases like "can be found here: https://example.com" to "can be found [here](https://example.com)."

### Course Related Activities

I didn't have much time to commit to contributing or learning to contribute outside of what I've written above, but I will be ready to go for Hacktoberfest at the start of October and I will be traveling to a few hackathons over the next month, so maybe I can fit in a few OpenStreetMaps edits.
