---
title: Week 9
layout: post
---

# The Cathedral and the Bazaar Impressions

I think Eric Raymond draws a fantastic analogy in [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html) about how open source software is developed and how baffling it is that it works so well. Cathedral-scale software projects should need planning and a well-communicated group of experts, but a bazaar of developers that are just passing by do the job just as well or even better in some cases.

The three lessons that stood out me the most are:

1. Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.
    - This lesson is true for just about all of my favorite projects and some of my own projects. It is a well summarized statement of an important idea.
1. Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot better than the other way around.
    - I like this lesson because I often have to urge to write smart code, but then the code becomes unreadable (even to myself). Especially after having worked in a professional environment, it has become quite apparent that it is more important for code to be readable than smart. This lesson goes one step further to praise good data structure design which would make future coding easier and maybe encourage writing better code.
1. A security system is only as secure as its secret. Beware of pseudo-secrets.
    - This lesson is interesting to me because I want to be able to write secure code, but am often unsure of how to do so. Raymond gives the example of a request for fetchmail passwords to be encrypted in the `.fetchmailrc` file to increase security. Raymond explains that this feature would not increase security, but would just create the illusion of security. If I hadn't read this explanation, I would've been convinced by the illusion.

# Open Source Contribution News

I haven't made much progress in contributions this week. Rather than continue work on [Hub](https://github.com/github/hub), I decided to look into issue [#953](https://github.com/Jguer/yay/issues/953) for [Yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay), an [AUR helper](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/AUR_helpers) for [Pacman](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/pacman). Pacman is the package manager for Arch Linux, but it doesn't come with support for the Arch User Repository by default, which is where AUR helpers like Yay come in.

Issue #953 is a feature request for the ability to install a package without checking for dependencies first, which can be useful because some packages have outdated or incorrect dependencies. Last time I looked at issue #953, I found the `install()` function, so I decided to comb through it to see where I could make edits relevant to dependency checking. I thought it would be a quick edit, but, as I read the code, I had to trace through functions called within `install()` and functions called within those functions. This went on for a couple of hours as I tried to understand what was going on in the codebase, but I didn't end up making much progress and had to give up as the task was beginning to eat into time I had allotted for other work.

I also realized that I had only submitted one contribution to OpenStreetMap. I had plans to go to a couple of hackathons outside of NYC over the past month and thought it might be fun to explore a bit while finding data to put into OpenStreetMap, but those plans fell apart, so I ended up adding contributions to my neighborhood map.

As October comes to a close, Hacktoberfest is nearly over and I have only submitted one pull request so far. I didn't expect it to go by so quickly and thought I would submit more pull requests, but I still have one day to submit three more and snag a limited edition T-shirt. I might just submit a few quick blog edits, but I hope I have enough time tomorrow to submit three pull requests.
