---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

# The Search for Projects

My search for projects was rather short because I already had a programming language I want to work in (Go) and I have a number of projects that I use frequently and would want to contribute to. The first three projects that I looked at were [Hugo](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo), [Neovim](https://github.com/neovim/neovim), and [Hub](https://github.com/github/hub). Neovim is written mostly in Vimscript and C, both of which I am less familiar with than Go, so I looked more at the other two projects.

Both of these projects are fairly active with plenty of open issues, but Hub seems more welcoming. This is mainly for two reasons. First, Hugo is a larger project that I am less familiar with, so jumping into the codebase is more daunting. Second, although both projects have a label for documentation requests, Hugo doesn't have any open ones while Hub has some. As we have discussed in class, starting on documentation will be easier than tackling a bug or new feature. 

As I was about to close off my search, Khinshan Khan told me that [Yay](https://github.com/Jguer/yay), another open source project that we both use is also written in Go. I took a quick look at the repository and it doesn't seem any more welcoming than Hub, but there is a specific issue posted by Khinshan himself that I can work on ([#953](https://github.com/Jguer/yay/issues/953)). Currently, my plan is to resolve #953 for Yay and then look into what I can contribute specifically for Hub.

# Licenses and Copyright with Karen Sandler

I learned a lot from [Karen Sandler's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Sandler) talk about the legal side of open source software. After the talk, one person asked about whether or not making software open source makes it less secure because the functionality is easier to analyze and exploit if the source code is available. The answer was surprisingly no because most exploits would be reported and patched and the same exploits could easily be found by blackhat hackers without access to the source code. I always assumed that releasing the source code for any software would make it less secure, so it was interesting to learn that the exact opposite is true.

Another question that came up was regarding how companies that secretly use open source software as part of their proprietary software for profit get discovered. This is something I have wondered myself and although Karen didn't go into the technical details behind the process of investigating such cases, she mentioned that just about every time that a company is investigated, it turns out that they were using licensed open source software after all and they admit to it rather than go to court.
