---
title: Week 11
layout: post
---

# Open Source at Bloomberg w/ Kevin Fleming

This week, Kevin Fleming came to class to talk about open source at Bloomberg. He mentioned many of the open source projects that Bloomberg utilizes to maintain its services and how Bloomberg contributes back to these projects. Among these projects was [Apache Solr](https://github.com/apache/lucene-solr). Bloomberg needed a feature for this project that had not yet been implemented, so some of their engineers were tasked with developing that feature and making it available to everyone that uses the project. Generally, Bloomberg gives back to many of the projects it uses to keep Bloomberg running. I think this is a exactly how a company should contribute to open source. Although, overall, Bloomberg likely benefits more from using open source projects than the open source community benefits from Bloomberg's contributions.

# System76 Open Source Firmware

System76 announced that it would begin shipping its laptops with a BIOS named [coreboot](https://www.coreboot.org/). coreboot is faster and more secure than traditional BIOS options, but, most importantly, it is open source. This opens up a part of computers that has traditionally only been proprietary and marks an important step to providing completely open source computers to consumers.

# Updates on Open Source Contribution

Last week, we started talking about Wikipedia and were tasked with making two contributions to pages on the site. We also talked a bit about Mozilla in class. During that discussion, I opened up Mozilla's Wikipedia page and was surprised to find that the Financing section of such a popular organization had a "needs update" tag. Specifically, I found this tag at the end of a sentence that talked about Mozilla signing a partnership with Yahoo! to make it the default search engine on Firefox. At the time of that update, the financial details of this partnership were not yet known, but were released at the end of 2016. Three years later, no one had updated the page with missing info, so I looked up the relevant info on Google and found a TechCrunch article that included exactly what I needed. Lastly, I updated Wikipedia and included the TechCrunch article as a reference.

I didn't make much progress on Hub this week. Instead, I was working on a [decentralized job application website](https://devpost.com/software/jobd) using Blockstack at HackPrinceton. This also led to my second Wikipedia contribution which was adding a link to examples of projects that were created using Blockstack on their Wikipedia page.
