---
title: Week 8
layout: post
---

# Beginning Work on Hub

Setting up the development environment for Hub was simple. According to the [CONTRIBUTING.md file](https://github.com/github/hub/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md), the project requires Go 1.9+, Ruby 1.9+ with Bundler, Git 1.8+, and optionally tmux and zsh for running shell completion tests. I already had Go 1.13.1, Ruby 2.6.0, and Git 2.23.0, but I didn't have Bundler for Ruby, so I installed it with the command `$ gem install bundler`. The output for this installation ended with a warning that I didn't have the Ruby gems directory in my PATH, so I added it to my zshrc file. With that, my development environment was all set, so I cloned Hub and ran `$ make test-all` to confirm everything was in working order.

To begin work on Hub, I started looking through issues on the repository to resolve. I looked through the "docs" label and quickly found [#2281](https://github.com/github/hub/issues/2281), which is an issue regarding the help message for the `hub release` command, specifically the `--message` tag. The issue doesn't point to any part of the code, but does include the specific help message that needed editing, so I ran `$ git grep [HELP_MSG]` in the Hub directory to find the code I would have to edit. I found that the relevant help message is used in three files `release.go`, `issue.go`, and `pull_request.go`. Next, I created a new branch, edited the help message in all three files, and submited pull request [#2318](https://github.com/github/hub/pull/2318).

From this point, I didn't know how long I would have to wait to get a response, but one of the maintainers actually got to my pull request within 24 hours of my submitting it. Unfortunately, they didn't think it was much of an improvement upon the old text, so my pull request was closed without getting merged. In retrospect, the help message was already pretty good and it was just one person that got confused by it and submitted an issue, so maybe this is a change not worth making or something I can revise and resubmit. I'm leaning towards looking for another issue instead of taking another stab at this issue.

# Bill Reyner

During Thursday's class (10/17/19), we learned about how FactSet incorporates open source software in the company. Bill mentioned that FactSet tries to open source a lot of its software, but cannot do so for a significant chunk of their code because doing so would reveal secrets that give FactSet a competitive advantage in the industry.

# Hacktoberfest and Other News

I am signed up for Hacktoberfest and would like to submit four pull requests to get a cool T-shirt by the end of the month, but I only have one submitted at this point. I have another contribution planned in a different project that I mentioned in last week's post, but have not done yet. I should be able to submit that before next week, but that leaves two more pull requests to submit which I will ideally do for Hub.

Lastly, in class this week, we learned a bit about collaborative workflow git fetch, branches, and remotes through reading Chapter 3 of _Pro Git_ and a lecture by Professor Weiss on the same topic. I had one main takeaway from this: fetching and then merging is better and often safer than just running `git pull`. I find it interesting that I have never heard of this workflow even after using Git at hackathons, for group projects, and at work, but it is definitely something I will incorporate into my own work in the future.
